okay so we were in a staff meeting and I
was like all right who knows what
blockchain is and everyone just kind of
we all looked around and we'd none of us
knew so I've been crypto my currency
mining at my house with my I built a VR
rig to learn VR and I it's a PC which I
hate PCs but fine
I built it and I've been mining but I
didn't still understood so I thought a
lot of people here might not fully know
so I wanted to just make a quick
presentation that's what this is it's a
quick presentation I just wanted to give
a context to the fact that this isn't
it's not like you're coming into your to
learn about technology and blockchain we
really are talking about new media art
and new media artists but you should
know that blockchain is the biggest
thing to happen in text since the advent
of the internet a lot of people are
calling it like Internet 2.0 like that's
kind of the the language that's
happening around blockchain so it's
important that we actually look at
blockchain and kind of know what it's
doing and how it works technically and
then and then I'm going to talk briefly
about a few projects and how they're
using blockchain basically block chain
is just a growing list of Records called
blocks that are connected to each other
and encrypted using cryptography and I'm
gonna dive into that in a second so the
first thing we have is a database you
guys probably know what a database is it
stores records basically I always tell
people when I teach a database is
literally an Excel spreadsheet that is
is put into a more organized and easily
accessible way but you can literally
take an Excel spreadsheet and put it
into a database so this is a very
sophisticated database and it has three
parts the first part is called a record
and that can be anything for for the
purposes of blockchain it's generally a
transaction record and there's also a
block which is a bundle of Records and
there's a chain that links all of these
records together so let's just say for
example that mr. pink is selling two of
his coins to mr. green for ten dollars
the record lists the details including a
digital signature from each party and
these digital signatures have been
around for a very long time I I used to
be an IT consultant and like I remember
I think the year 2007
I remember my boss who is a really big
nerd being like we can only send
encrypted email to each other like why
no one cares about our clients but
anyway we were not working with like
NASA or something it was like very
ridiculous like arts organizations so I
had to learn what that was anyway the
second part of the step of this process
is that this record that's going to get
created by mr. pink selling his coins is
then kind of propagated throughout the
network into things that are called
nodes so we're gonna talk about how the
node network is different than a
traditional network in a second and
those nodes are gonna validate whether
or not the transaction is correct and
authenticated so the records are then
accepted into the network and once that
happens they're added to a block and
each block has a unique code called a
hash that we talked about earlier that
my boss made me use for email and it the
hash has also has the previous records
hash embedded into it so it's you can
start to imagine from this link
visualization that you're looking at
that it's kind of got two sides it has
its own hash and the one before so let's
go to the next step then the block that
has these two encryption key things is
then connected to the chain as long as
the codes match and they're linked
together in the specific order and
that's kind of how we know that that
they're then part of the actual
blockchain it is a chain so I really
like this graphic right here that I
should it's so cool I did not make these
these are I found them online and that's
why there's a credit so why does
blockchain matter and let me go into
this network thing I was gonna describe
so what I used to work on servers and
recruit as an IT consultant I set up a
lot of databases
or mostly nonprofits and they would have
you know a database of people that
donated to them or they would have a
file server with all their files on it
and that looks like these this slide
that's I guess on your left the central
hub that would be kind of where you'd
keep all your records most of you at
your jobs if you work desk jobs that's
what you'd use is a central that
centralized hub database server now a
blockchain database is decentralized it
has no master and you can see from the
graphic that it's just crazy it's all
over the place those records are kind of
hopping around all over the internet all
over the world but what's really
interesting about them is that every
single computer that's processing like
within this database node network has
all of the information for all of the
transactions that have occurred and it's
duplicated throughout the network on
every computer it takes about ten
minutes from the origin of your
transaction for it to actually process
onto the network and be verified so
there are opportunities for hackers to
do man-in-the-middle attacks or to try
to you know fake out your hash code and
and like for example if you were like
not a ver you know you're kind of
sketchy you bought this blouse on eBay
and it was coming and you spent $100 on
it and you paid with your Bitcoin but
maybe you could like hack into it and
say oh I didn't actually like I act I
didn't spend the hundred dollars on the
blouse put it back in my account it
potentially could happen so there are
actually some holes particularly in the
Bitcoin network of blockchain but it
generally is very safe like for most of
us we wouldn't be able to do that so and
I'd say it's probably a lot safer than
PayPal or some of these other
organizations for accepting cash so I
made this emoji illustration which I
want to quickly use as a metaphor to
explain blockchain so the fur
thing that happens is diamonds are mined
blood diamonds I'm just kidding I don't
know hopefully they're not like creepily
mined on the slave labor but they
probably are then they're taking in
they're processed then they are taken to
be refined in a factory or maybe cut
then they're shipped to a store then a
woman walks into the store and purchases
a diamond ring let's say or a man for
his or another woman whatever their
partner whatever your diamond ring let's
use an engagement ring
the important thing is that a blockchain
record is basically like if you came
into like a diamond store and you could
know the exact worker that had cut the
diamond you knew where it came from
where it was processed it has all of the
data all of the information of the
diamond from the minute you purchase it
you know where it came from it's very
much if you've seen Portlandia like when
they were at the restaurant and they
were there like but where did my chicken
grow up that I'm going to eat and they
had to like go to the farm and meet the
chicken
that's what blockchain would do would to
it was like allow you to meet your
chicken they're about to eat and it
actually is that's how it works like
metaphorically but it literally could be
used for supply chain records so it
could actually be used to record like I
said from the inception of a product so
jewelry companies could assure you that
their diamonds are not blood diamonds
and they did not come and finance war
they did not come from a turbulent area
another use is banking obviously there's
there's a lot of banks like getting
involved Chase has a big program
exploring blockchain they hate however
the decentralized network thing so
they're like how can we make it central
we have control whatever we'll see what
happens with that healthcare you know
your medical records could be could be
collected and saved in blockchain
there's a lot more transparency now
anyway with our medical records but it
would be nice to have like complete
accurate records voting we could
eliminate those creepy machines and and
just get rid of voting fraud property
records it's obvious kind of a
transactional thing
and then cryptocurrency so everybody
knows Bitcoin that was kind of how it
was originally invented was by somebody
invented Bitcoin and then the blockchain
technology since the advent of Bitcoin
well let me just step back and just
finish this slide but Silicon Valley
like I said with cryptocurrency wants to
disrupt the stock market and take over
banking I don't know if we should allow
it that's kind of a question I want you
to think about as you look at a lot of
the work that's going on behind you the
art works a lot of them are dealing with
with that those topics and actually when
I go back one step so interestingly in
terms of banking and money you may not
know but the Venezuelan president Maduro
he basically ordered them to create a
cryptocurrency called Petrus and it's an
oil back to national currency it was
like I think it was the first of its
kind and so that each coin would have
the value of a barrel of oil so in a way
it's a bit like the gold standard for
cryptocurrency and I think it's it's
just launched I think it was this month
are very recently it just launched so
that's one example of a cryptocurrency
that's actually being backed by a
government and that's be did it because
their currency is just all over the
place like inflation crazy unstable
currencies so a lot of people in
developing nations or nations where they
have war and things like that or
unstable finances are using
cryptocurrency as a way to secure their
finances instead of just like stuffing
dollars in a mattress or whatever so how
are artists using blockchain this is
kind of e we're almost at the end here
they're using it in three ways they're
probably like a million ways that I'm
gonna explain three one is they're
making crypto collectibles virtual in
real life and combined two is they're
doing blockchain based activist art I'd
say about half the artworks in this
gallery are that as well as other things
and three interactive and transactional
artworks I'm going to quickly explain
three examples the first one which
you'll see in the gallery is flower
tokens flower tokens is very cool
I recommend you guys to look at it I
think it's like toward your left you
walk out it's an experimental project
surrounding tokenization and the
verification of natural commodities
basically you buy a token which is a
flower and that flower is a living
flower that grows and at any point
during the process if you you want to
get your flower and resume your token
they will mail it to you or you can go
pick it up or something so it's kind of
fun because it's it's a combination
between a virtual and a real token and
in a real thing it's like a growing
flower so I did they say it's the first
of its kind I don't know but let's just
say it is just awesome my favorite thing
ever is crypto kitties and that is a
really popular I think it reached its
peak in January this year with two
hundred and thirty five thousand users
and fifty-two million dollars in
transactions people basically imagine a
virtual Tamagotchi that you can buy and
you can breed to create more virtual
tamagotchis and they're super cute and
then when you breed them together they
make a new cuter ones so I really like
new crypto kitties I may own some crypto
kitties anyway on a more serious note
bail block we're also showing here is a
crypto currency scheme against bail
that's sitting on the Monaro
cryptocurrency and basically you're
you're mining Manero and you use the
power of your computer like I told you I
do at my house with my PC but every
month they take the money you've mined
and they send it to the Bronx freedom
fund to help people get out of jail so
it's a very powerful project and I'm
really excited that we're showing it
here finally this is another piece we're
showing the artist couldn't be here but
I think it's fun because it's a game and
it's a crazy clicking game where as you
click you're mining coins ERC 20 tokens
and it's kind of an absurdist
I mean she deserve describes it as an
absurdist game but basically it's all
about the capitalist frenzy of
tokenization and people creating tokens
to start
startups or whatever and basically it's
just useless wealth I mean that's her
point there so those are all of the
slides I have there's so much cool stuff
happening at this vessel both about
blockchain and not about blockchain but
I just wanted to give you a quick
overview so that when you leave here you
can have some contacts for the artwork
that you're about to see if you didn't
already have it which you may have
anyway thank you very much and I hope
you have a great time at the festival